Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a Crime, Mystery, Thriller
film from 2007 titled The number 23.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Walter Sparrow works at animal control.
He has a son Robin and a lovely wife Agatha.
He goes to a party and tells Sybil (who is
now his coordinator) that he would not even
wag his tail for her if she were the last
woman alive.
February 3.
It's Walter's birthday.
A minute before the end of his shift, he gets
a call about a stray bulldog from Sybil, who
is still pissed about his comments.
With a little coaxing, he manages to catch
the dog.
Ned.
As he checks his collar, the light from the
metal shines in his eye and the dog bites
him and runs away.
He chases the dog but loses it in a graveyard.
He sees a gravestone with the name Laura Tollins
and is left with a feeling of familiarity
as though he knew her.
His wife is waiting for him to pick her up
at a nearby bookstore.
There she sees an appealing red book titled
The Number 23.
A Novel of Obsession by Topsy Kretts.
He catches up with his wife and jokes with
her about the dog he met today named Ned - a
nasty evil dog.
Agatha decides to buy him the book she has
her eye on.
That night, as they are having a party with
Agatha's friends, Walter sneaks away.
He begins to read the book.
"All the characters in this book are fictional."
At home, he saves his son from his mother
questioning his relationship and is given
a mug as a present, or you could say he bribes
him.
The Book - Chapter 1:In the first paragraph,
the book's protagonist, Fingerling, attributes
his nickname to a children's book, Fingerling
at the Zoo, which Walter remembers well from
his own childhood.
February 4.
Walter is with the department psychologist.
With his faulty sense of humor, he makes fun
of his wife's choice of color for the living
room.
She is not amused and gives him the day off.
She asks him what color she chose?
"Red, blood red."
He uses the day to continue reading the book.
Chapter 2: Fingerling talks about his childhood.
His father wants him to go into his accounting
business, but Fingerling wants to be a detective.
On his eighth birthday, he finds the lady
next door dead on her bed, her wrists slashed.
Although the doctor thinks it's suicide, Fingerling
believes a neighborhood stalker took her life.
Agatha comes downstairs and asks him how he
likes the book.
Walter seems slightly confused, surrounded
by old albums, and asks Agatha what she thinks
of it.
Walter says that his mother passed away on
his eighth birthday.
It's like his childhood.
He wonders about this coincidence.
Agatha coolly continues with her routine and
pays no further attention to his ramblings.
She is convinced that his feelings of familiarity
is natural.
It happens to her when she reads a book.
Walter still does not give up and recounts
more similarities to the book.
He even gets goosebumps.
Fabricia was Fingerling's sidekick.
Or maybe more than just a sidekick.
He can not sleep.
Thoughts about the book run through his head
and he has a hallucination of a shadow with
a knife.
February 5.
Walter reads the book in a park.
Chapter 5 Fingerling meets the Blonde.
She is trying on a noose, but she has obviously
cut herself in the past.
Fingerling talks her down from her improvised
gallows and learns her story.
It's a story about the number 23 and about
madness.
"Pink is my favorite color.
Do you know what pink is?
Red 27, white 65 - 65 plus 27, 92 - 'Pink'
has four letters - 92 divided by four, twenty-effing-three!"
Fingerling obviously did not understand at
first.
He says to her the only words he could muster,
"Coffee?"...
And tells her a story about a woman in red.
As he leaves the building, thinking he's done
his job well, the Blonde jumps out the window.
Later, Fabrizia begs Fingerling to take her
to Blonde's apartment and they have wild intercourse.
Her reaction is typical Fabrizia.
What a turn-on.
As the paper that covered the walls begins
to fall, he understands that Blonde has reduced
everything to 23.
It was starting to add up for Fingerling as
well.
As Walter sits in a park, he starts to notice
it.
He goes to the bookstore where they bought
the book to find out who published it.
It was self-published and printed.
At the house, Walter points out to Agatha
and Robin the parallels between Fingerling
and himself.
He points out the 23 in his name, birth date,
his driver's license, his social security
number, "everything!"
He was born at 11:12 pm.
23.
He begins to think the book is imitating his
life.
He asks his wife, who thinks he's still talking
nonsense, "Why this color?"
(That also somehow adds up to 23).
He met Agatha when he was 23, on September
14, 9+14, 23.
His son begins to catch up and also points
out that their street address is 23.
Walter married Agatha on October 13, that's
23.
Chapter 7: Fingerling ties Fabrizia to a bed
and, at her insistence, pretends to have a
knife at her throat.
She Loves It.
They perform another mating act.
Fingerling starts having hallucinations.
In the middle of the night Walter sees more
shadows, they resemble the outline of his
figure.
He gets out of bed and counts Agatha's shoes.
You guessed it, 23 pairs, just like in the
book.
February 6.
In the morning Agatha covers Walter while
he sleeps on the couch.
He has been reading all night and has found
more 23s in his life.
She finds writing all over his arms and calls
Isaac, the psychology professor.
Walter meets with him and describes that what
he is experiencing right now is paranoia.
He shows him more examples of 23, the human
body has 46 chromosomes, it takes 23 seconds
for blood to circulate, the Mayans believed
the world would end on December 12, 2012,
you can do the math, but it all boils down
to 23.
When he asks if that's the number of the gods,
Isaac says 2 divided by 3 is 0.666 and that's
not divine.
"You are looking for 23, so you're finding
it."
"Finish reading the book."
Walter is not convinced.
Fingerling sees Miles in his office and the
police psychologist puts him on "emotional
leave."
Without active duty and his gun, Fingerling
is no longer sexually attractive to Fabrizia.
She begins an in-plain-sight affair with Miles,
which humiliates Fingerling.
He imagines ending Miles' life.
As he thinks of him, the fictional character
becomes the real Isaac and Walter's book fantasy
and his life begin to merge.
He sees "23" everywhere as he walks the streets.
When he comes to Agatha's shop and sees her
talking to Isaac, his paranoia blossoms.
Chapter 21: Miles has seduced Fabrizia.
Fingerling stumbles upon the two having intercourse
in the woods.
That night, Walter suddenly wakes up and looks
at the clock.
It reads 11:12.
He goes to the kitchen to get a glass of water
and sees that his hands are bloody and a knife
is missing.
He realises that he stabbed Agatha in her
sleep.
He then wakes up immediately.
He is relieved, it was just a bad dream.
He looks at the clock.
It reads 11:12.
Shaken by déjà vu, he impulsively leaves
the house.
He left a note: "Ag, I do not want you to
worry.
I just need a night to clear my head.
Please do not give up on me."
He drives to the King Edward Hotel, not sure
why.
He insists on room 23.
February 7.
In the hotel room, Walter continues to read
his book.
Chapter 22: Fabrizia has been murdered.
Miles finds her body.
He absentmindedly picks up the knife.
Later, he is taken away in a police car while
Fingerling flees the scene.
Fingerling's face is stained with Fabrizia's
blood.
Back at the hotel, Fingerling takes the final
step into madness: he walks out onto the balcony.
The book ends abruptly.
Walter is confused.
It was not an ending for him, because after
Chapter 22 there were nothing but questions
he wanted answers to.
Then he hears a dog barking.
It is Ned.
He follows the dog and blames him for making
him late picking up Agatha and for these events.
He is once again in the cemetery, at the grave
of Laura Tollins.
She died on her 23rd birthday.
He learns from a priest that Laura's body
was never found.
Walter begins to put the pieces together.
He returns home with newspaper clippings about
Laura's murder and the fate of Kyle Flinch.
He is convinced that Flinch is Topsy Kretts
and that the book is actually Flinch's confession.
February 8.
Walter confronts Flinch in prison.
The man admits to having been Laura's lover,
but denies killing her and writing the book.
He makes a comment that if he would have written
a book, he would not have used a name like
Top Secrets.
Walter believes him because of his apparent
sincerity and because the letters of his name
do not add up to 23.
Robin has an idea about how to track down
Topsy Kretts.
That night, Walter sends 23 empty boxes to
the postbox Robin found in the back of the
book.
That night in bed, Agatha tells Walter, "You
would never hurt anyone, ever.
"How would you know?" he replies.
February 9.
Walter, Agatha, and Robin watch the postbox
of Topsy Kretts.
Dr. Sirius Leary shows up to claim the mailboxes.
When they confront him, he attacks them and
storms off.
Walter catches him, but before he can question
him, Leary slits his own throat.
Agatha insists that Walter and Robin go home.
Before he passes, Leary tells Agatha about
an institute.
She finds an ID in his pocket.
He was on staff at Nathaniel's Institute,
a psychiatric care facility.
That night, after calling home and denying
to Walter that Leary said anything, Agatha
goes to the now closed and abandoned mental
institution.
She finds Dr. Sirius' office, in a mirror
she sees the number 23 and follows it, which
leads to a room full of scribbles of the number
23.
Dr. Sirius used to live there.
There she finds a case with Walter's name
on it, indicating that he was a patient at
this hospital, just as the figure of a man
approaches.
Meanwhile, Walter deciphers with every 23rd
word on every 23rd page: "Visit Casanova's
park, dig beneath the steps to Heaven, I warn
you, hell is waiting sparrow man."
He leaves a note for Agatha, then he and Robin
make their way to the bottom of the stairs
to heaven - of course there are 23 steps - in
Casanova's Park.
Beneath the last step, Walter and Robin dig
and uncover a skeleton.
They hear a mysterious sound approaching Laura's
grave.
They drive to a nearby booth and call the
police.
When the cops get there, the skeleton is gone.
The cops reject Walter and Robin's insistent
claims that a skeleton was found and is now
gone.
As the confused policemen leave, Agatha and
Isaac arrive.
As the three of them drive home, Robin argues
that what his father is telling is true.
He also begins to see meaning in twenty-three.
Agatha gets angry and tells them to cut it
out.
Walter sees Ned.
He starts speeding to run him over, but stops
at the last moment.
Walter sees dirt under Agatha's fingernails.
It was Isaac's figure that Agatha saw in the
hospital.
It was Isaac and Agatha who moved the skeleton.
Once they are home Walter claims that Agatha
wrote the book to make it look like he wrote
it.
Agatha's maiden name is ... Pink.
He has flashbacks of her saying she wanted
to write a book.
Then he accuses Agatha and Isaac of being
part of a conspiracy to frame him for Laura's
murder.
He finds a knife in her purse, Agatha admits
to moving the skeleton with Isaac, but she
did not write the book.
Walter insists on knowing who wrote the book.
"You wrote the book Walter."
She shows him the file from the hospital.
The draft of the book with Walter's name in
place of "Topsy Kretts."
Isaac comes down the stairs and Agatha gives
Walter his saxophone.
Walter starts having flashbacks, everything
from the book was in this case, detective
journals, a woman in red, Fabricia.
He flees, bolts of recollection flash through
his mind.
February 10.
Walter returns to room 23 of the King Edward
Hotel.
He tears down the crumbling wallpaper and
finds Chapter 23 underneath.
Chapter 23: "You can call me Fingerling, but
my real name is Walter, Walter Paul Sparrow."
True memories now flood Walter's brain.
The memory of his mother's suicide, followed
by his father.
That left him with the number 23.
Recollection of his foster families, college,
and Laura Tollins while he was haunted and
tormented by the number 23.
Memories of betrayal, of Laura's flirting
with Kyle Flinch, her professor.
How she had intercourse with him in the woods.
The memory of her rejection when he tried
to save her from the number.
The memory of him killing her and burying
her under the Steps to Heaven.
Memory of Flinch's arrest.
Memory of the King Edward Hotel, room 23.
The suicide note that became a book.
Memory of the obsession, the madness.
Memory of jumping out of the window and being
hospitalized.
In a way, it cured him of his obsession over
the number, because of a severe head injury,
he lost his memories.
That was when Dr. Leary got his hands on Walter's
book.
The curse had found a new victim.
Agatha swears her love and loyalty to Walter.
She takes a knife and presses it into his
hand to tell him that he is not a murderer.
He screams that she cannot love him.
He flees the hotel.
On the street, he flirts with death, but the
cries of his son bring him back.
Later, Laura Tollin's grave has been filled.
Kyle Flinch has been released.
Walter is awaiting sentencing for Laura's
murder.
He ponders that maybe all is not lost after
all, that he is not the same man who wrote
the book.
It's not the happiest ending, but it's the
right one.
Or is it?
The End.
Thank you for watching!
Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos
like this.